Port Cloud security document to Cloud Dedicated with minor updates (#4937)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud-dedicated/reference/internals/security.md

  - [Monitoring, logging, and alerting](#monitoring-logging-and-alerting)
  - [Third-party security assessments](#security-assessments)
  - [Business continuity and disaster recovery](#business-continuity-and-disaster-recovery)
  - [Data durability](#data-durability)
  - [Incident response](#incident-response)
- [Configurable security controls](#configurable-security-controls):
  - [Authentication, authorization, and accounting](#access-authentication-and-authorization)
  - [Role-based access controls (RBAC)](#role-based-access-controls-rbac)
  - [Advanced controls](#advanced-controls)
- [Compliance auditing](#compliance-and-auditing)
  to ensure continuous review and adoption of industry-recognized standards and best practices.

## Tenant isolation

In the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated platform, access controls ensure that only valid
authenticated and authorized requests access your account data.
Access control includes:

- A unique cluster ID assigned to each InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
  All internal Cloud services require this cluster ID to authenticate entities before accessing or operating on data.
- All external requests must be authorized with a valid token or session.

>   Every InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated service enforce this policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Every InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated service enforces this policy.
```

## Data integrity

A dedicated internal service ensures data integrity
by periodically creating, recording, and writing test data into test buckets.
The service periodically executes queries to ensure the data hasn't been lost or corrupted.
A separate instance of this service lives within each InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated cluster.
Additionally, the service creates out-of-band backups in
[line protocol](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/reference/syntax/line-protocol/),
and ensures the backup data matches the data on disk.

## Cloud infrastructure

![InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated cluster architecture](https://docs.influxdata.com/img/influxdb/cloud-internals-cluster.png)

InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated is available on the following cloud providers:

- [Amazon Web Services (AWS)](https://aws.amazon.com/)
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/) _(Coming)_
- [Google Cloud Platform (GCP)](https://cloud.google.com/) _(Coming)_

To ensure data security, availability, and durability:

> - Each instance is isolated and protected in its own virtual private cloud (VPC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each instance is isolated and protected in its own virtual private cloud (VPC).
```

> - Clusters are deployed across multiple provider availability zones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Clusters are deployed across multiple provider availability zones.
```

### Amazon Web Services (AWS)

An instance of InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated consists of microservices in Kubernetes.
Each VPC within AWS is segmented into public and private subnets:

- The public subnet contains resources exposed to the public internet, including
  load balancers and network address translation (NAT) gateways.

> - The private subnet contains supporting infrastructure (e.g., compute, storage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The private subnet contains supporting infrastructure (for example, compute and storage)
```

> - The private subnet contains supporting infrastructure (e.g., compute, storage)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The private subnet contains supporting infrastructure (for example, compute and storage)
```

  not exposed to the public internet.

To ensure fault tolerance across the data layer, clusters are deployed across multiple availability zones.
AWS data centers are compliant with many physical and information security standards.
For detail about AWS's physical security and data center protocols, see [AWS's Compliance](https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/).

### Google Cloud Platform (GCP)

In Google Cloud Platform (GCP), InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated uses the Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE)
and Google Compute Engine to deploy individual cluster components.
Clusters are isolated at the project level

> to enhance access controls, data governance, and support auditing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to enhance access controls and data governance, and support auditing.
```

Google Cloud Platform data centers are compliant with many physical and information security standards.
For detail about physical security in GCP data centers, see [Google's Compliance website](https://cloud.google.com/security/compliance/).

### Microsoft Azure

In Microsoft Azure, InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated uses Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
and Azure Virtual Machines to deploy individual cluster components.
To support auditing and authorization control within Azure,
clusters are deployed into dedicated VNets within each region.
To ensure fault tolerance across the data layer, clusters are deployed across multiple availability zones.

Microsoft Azure data centers are compliant with many physical and information security standards.
For detail about physical security within Microsoft Azure data centers, see [Microsoft's Compliance website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/trust-center/compliance/compliance-overview).

### Data encryption

InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated enforces TLS encryption for data in transit from all
clients, including Telegraf agents, browsers, and custom applications.
Requests using TLS 1.1 or earlier are rejected.

> By default, data at rest is encrypted using strong encrypted methods (AES-256)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, data at rest is encrypted using strong encryption methods (AES-256)
```

  and for other production systems with access to user information
  (see [InfluxData Subprocessors](https://www.influxdata.com/legal/influxdata-subprocessors/)).
- InfluxDB Cloud access is logged and audited regularly.

### Configuration management

InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated is programmatically managed and deployed using
“infrastructure as code” which undergoes version control and testing as part of
the automated deployment process.
Permission to push code is tightly controlled,
requiring peer review and approval by designated infrastructure engineers,
and has automated safeguards to prevent production-impacting events.

### Secure software development life cycle (SDLC)

InfluxData follows security best practices throughout the development cycle, including:

- Security control points at multiple phases of development.
- Manual security code review on critical assets.
- Security considered in the design phase, starting with architecture review and threat modeling.
- Source code management:
  - Version control
  - Mandatory peer code review
  - Automated functional testing and static code analysis
  - Automated vulnerability scans on third-party dependencies and libraries

> - Automated vulnerability scans on containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Automated vulnerability scans on containers
```

> - Regular dynamic application security testing and third-party penetration tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regular dynamic application security testing and third-party penetration tests
```

> - Regular engineering team training in secure application development practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regular engineering team training in secure application development practices
```

### Separation of environments and duties

Production and non-production environments are separate.
Developers use non-production environments solely for development, testing, and
staging, and do not use user data for non-production use cases.
Production access is limited to authorized personnel based on the principles of
least privilege and separation of duties.

### Monitoring, logging, and alerting

InfluxData continuously monitors and analyzes metrics from InfluxDB Cloud
Dedicated environments.

- Services are carefully monitored to ensure performance and availability, and
  to detect anomalies.
- Application logging, performance, and observability data are gathered and used
  for event analysis, capacity planning, alerting, and instrumentation.
  Access to these logs and operator interfaces is controlled by group access
  permissions, and provided only to teams that require access to deliver
  InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated services.

### Security assessments

> We use trusted third-party security firms to complete penetration testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxData uses trusted third-party security firms to complete penetration testing
```

> We use trusted third-party security firms to complete penetration testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxData uses trusted third-party security firms to complete penetration testing
```

to discover vulnerabilities post-development,
and validate remediations from previous engagements.
This includes white box and gray box testing against InfluxDB Cloud.

### Business continuity and disaster recovery

InfluxData is a highly distributed organization with employees located across the globe.

> Our IT infrastructure is cloud-based and there is no on-premises infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our IT infrastructure is cloud-based and there is no on-premise infrastructure.
```

The Business Continuity Plan and Disaster Recovery Plan are updated annually.

### Data durability

Data is replicated within multiple storage engines of InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated.
The replication mechanism executes a serializable upsert and delete stream
against all replicas and runs background entropy detection processes to identify
diverged replicas.
Ingested data is also recorded out of band to provider-operated object storage.

<!-- For more information, see [InfluxDB Cloud data durability](https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/cloud/reference/internals/durability). -->

### Incident response

Report security incidents to <security@influxdata.com> or <support@influxdata.com>.
We maintain procedures for incident alerting and response, performance or
downtime events, security, and customer notification.
We perform root cause analysis (RCA) as part of our incident response.

## Configurable security controls

Users can configure the following security controls:

### Access, authentication, and authorization

We use [Auth0](https://auth0.com/) for InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated authentication.

> User accounts can be created by InfluxData on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system via Auth0.
> API access within custom applications requires an API token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User accounts can be created by InfluxData on the InfluxDB Cloud Dedicated system via Auth0.
User accounts can create database tokens with data read and/or write permissions.
API requests from custom applications require a database token with sufficient permissions.
```

> Tokens are mapped to InfluxDB read and write permissions as defined when the token is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
